[ELECTRONIC MUSIC PLAYING]
SURMA: OK.
We know it's December.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: It is.
SURMA: In December,
there's Christmas.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yes.
SURMA: So I thought for
Christmas we could like talk
about we want to do for 2018.
And you can ask me
questions about the things
that I want to do.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: OK.
SURMA: So something
that I'm excited about
is animation worklet.
JAKE ARCHIBALD:
Animation worklet?
OK.
Now, what's a worklet?
SURMA: A worklet it
is like a worker,
like a potentially
off-thread thing.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yes.
SURMA: But it's
more lightweight,
and something that we can
easily and cheaply instantiate.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Oh, like a
piglet is a smaller pig--
SURMA: Yes.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: --a worklet
is a smaller worker.
Right, OK.
I understand.
Now, an animation, what's that?
Actually, I know.
But what is-- how does
that fit inside a worklet?
SURMA: So you know
how sometimes you
end up like doing
JavaScript in a raf just
to make complex animations
or have something stick
to your finger, like
drag and drop things,
with like transforms?
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Like on native,
where you scroll the thing,
a header sort of goes up--
SURMA: Exactly.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: --sort
of changes size.
SURMA: These kind of things,
those would go in a worklet.
Because the worklet would
be called on every frame.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Worklets
can't access DOM.
SURMA: No.
But we have like special
thingies, like proxy elements,
so you can still transform
them, like with the fast GPU
operations, like transform
opacity, but only those things.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Oh, so
it's just the things
that can be composited?
SURMA: Exactly.
It basically runs
on the composer.
Technically, that's not
true, but you might as well
think about it that way.
So we can manipulate where
things appear on screen.
It's really fast.
And you can do really
fancy, fancy things.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: OK.
So what can I do
that in response to?
SURMA: You can do it
in response to time,
because that's how
animations work.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: That is true.
SURMA: But also in
response to scrolls.
So it can have frame-perfect
scrolling effects.
So you could do things like
a hidey bar that disappears,
or a header that grows
when you scroll down,
or like an object that
rotates when you scroll down.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: So you're
getting the scroll position in,
and you can have
access to a series
of elements or something.
SURMA: Yeah.
And you can just do--
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Do what
you want with them.
SURMA: Yeah.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: OK.
And then, with time,
you just give it like--
I want to do an
animation for 20 seconds.
And you just get
the frame scroll--
SURMA: Yeah.
It's very similar to
the Web Animations
API, where you define
timelines and keyframes
on these timelines.
And then you can basically
say, on this timeline,
I want to be at this
point, depending
on where you are on the scroll
timeline or the actual time
timeline-line-line.
JAKE ARCHIBALD:
Timeline-line-line?
SURMA: Animations.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Animations.
[VIDEO ARCADE STYLE CHRISTMAS
MUSIC]
Bang on.
[LAUGHTER]
I want to talk about
the Web Locks API.
Go.
SURMA: Is that like warlocks?
JAKE ARCHIBALD: No.
SURMA: So it's like
mutex locks and stuff?
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yes, correct.
SURMA: What?
How?